---
layout: post
title: Objections lodged over 600-home plan near Whippendell Wood
abbrlink: 79208801a69848cca0b0416e9dd9bfce
tags:
  - news
categories:
  - Croxley Green - News
date: 1738460999173
updated: 1738461119915
---

[Source - Watford Observer - 29th January 2025](https://www.watfordobserver.co.uk/news/24893906.objections-lodged-600-home-plan-near-whippendell-wood/)

### Objections lodged over 600-home plan near Whippendell Wood

Proposals for hundreds of homes near a Watford beauty spot have met with dozens of objections in the week since a planning application was submitted.

Development firm Richborough wants to build 600 homes, a new primary school and medical centre on land north of Little Green Lane, Croxley Green, near Whippendell Wood and the West Herts Golf Club.

An outline application and supporting documents were added to the Three Rivers planning portal last Monday (January 20) - with 36 formal objections already lodged.

The site location for the proposed homes *(Image: Richborough)* James Norkett lives nearby and hit out at "the continuing wanton destruction of our towns and villages with aggressive housebuilding".

The 38-year-old project manager said: "As ever, little consideration is given to local infrastructure or the concerns residents. The argument that the UK needs housing only holds water if the government was committed to sensible immigration policies."

James Norkett. *(Image: Supplied by James Norkett)* Another resident wrote online: "This cherished area, known for its natural beauty and biodiversity, faces irreparable harm from this project. Such a proposal not only threatens our community's character but also endangers vital ecosystems, displaces wildlife and exacerbates existing infrastructure issues."

Someone else added that 600 homes would add to "huge strain" already on local services such as doctors surgeries and Watford General, while local Green Party councillor Narinder Sian branded it a "speculative development".

However, Richborough maintains that the plans will benefit the community, while also claiming that the site qualifies as grey belt and is therefore suitable for development.

A spokesperson said: "Richborough has submitted a planning application for a high-quality, well-connected and sustainable new neighbourhood at Little Green Lane.

"This application includes not just much-needed new homes including affordable housing but also outstanding green infrastructure and local community facilities. There is a chronic shortage of affordable housing in the Croxley Green area and this application responds to this need.

"Richborough has conducted a comprehensive pre-application consultation with the local community which included an extensive leaflet consultation, a webinar and digital consultation and a program of meetings with relevant local stakeholders."

Whippendell Wood is designated a site of special scientific interest. *(Image: Watford Borough Council)*
